Add resorucequota related monitoring alerts (#1057)
harvester/docs: docs/rancher/resource-quota.md

To minimize reliance on automatic adjustments, manually update `ResourceQuota` settings whenever overhead configurations are changed. Ultimately, the VM's final memory footprint must always comply with defined namespace limits, regardless of whether it is migrated or cold-rebooted.

:::

## Monitoring ResourceQuota Usage and Alerts

> Monitoring resource usage is critical to cluster stability, as high `ResourceQuota` consumption can cause VM startup failures or prevent successful VM migrations. Real-time visibility and proactive notifications ensure you can address capacity constraints before they impact your workloads.
> 
> When the [rancher-monitoring](../advanced/addons.md) addon is enabled, it creates the `PrometheusRule` resource `rancher-monitoring-kubernetes-resources` in `cattle-monitoring-system`. This includes the following pre-configured ResourceQuota alert rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resource usage monitoring is critical to cluster stability, as high `ResourceQuota` consumption can prevent virtual machines from starting or migrating. Real-time visibility and proactive notifications enable you to address capacity constraints before they impact active workloads.

When the [rancher-monitoring](../advanced/addons.md) add-on is enabled, it creates a `PrometheusRule` resource named  `rancher-monitoring-kubernetes-resources` in the `cattle-monitoring-system` namespace. This includes the following pre-configured `ResourceQuota` alert rules:
```

> ### Alert Rule Definitions
> 
> | Alert Name | Condition | Duration |
> | :--- | :--- | :--- |
> | **KubeCPUQuotaOvercommit** | CPU usage > 150% | 5 minutes |
> | **KubeMemoryQuotaOvercommit** | Memory usage > 150% | 5 minutes |
> | **KubeQuotaAlmostFull** | CPU/Memory usage between 90% and 100% | 15 minutes |
> | **KubeQuotaFullyUsed** | CPU/Memory usage = 100% | 15 minutes |
> | **KubeQuotaExceeded** | CPU/Memory usage > 100% | 15 minutes |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Alert Name | Condition | Duration |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **KubeCPUQuotaOvercommit** | CPU usage > 150% | 5 minutes |
| **KubeMemoryQuotaOvercommit** | Memory usage > 150% | 5 minutes |
| **KubeQuotaAlmostFull** | CPU or memory usage is between 90% and 100% | 15 minutes |
| **KubeQuotaFullyUsed** | CPU or memory usage = 100% | 15 minutes |
| **KubeQuotaExceeded** | CPU or memory usage > 100% | 15 minutes |
```

### Verifying ResourceQuota Status

> To inspect your current resource usage, use the `kubectl get resourcequota -A` command. This helps correlate your manual observations with the alert triggers.
> 
> **Example Output:**
> 
> For a `ResourceQuota` named `default-kflsw` in the `quota-test` namespace:
> 
> ```sh
> NAMESPACE    NAME            REQUEST   LIMIT
> quota-test   default-kflsw             limits.cpu: 2015m/3, limits.memory: 4797464313/5000Mi
> ...
> ```
> 
> In this instance, the memory usage 4797464313(4575Mi) is approximately 91.5% of the 5000Mi limit, which triggers the **KubeQuotaAlmostFull** alert once the 15-minute duration threshold is surpassed.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
You can run the command `kubectl get resourcequota -A` to check your current resource usage. Use the output to correlate your observations with the alert triggers.

**Example:**

A `ResourceQuota` object named `default-kflsw` was created in the `quota-test` namespace.

```sh
NAMESPACE    NAME            REQUEST   LIMIT
quota-test   default-kflsw             limits.cpu: 2015m/3, limits.memory: 4797464313/5000Mi
...
```

In this example, the memory usage value `4797464313` (equivalent to 4575Mi) is approximately 91.5% of the 5000Mi limit. This triggers the **KubeQuotaAlmostFull** alert once the 15-minute threshold is reached.
````

> ### Observing Alerts in Harvester
> 
> Once threshold conditions are met and the duration has elapsed, alerts transition to the "Firing" state. Use the following steps to navigate to your monitoring dashboard:
> 
> 1.  **Access Addons:** Go to the **Advanced** section of the Harvester dashboard and select **Addons**.
> 2.  **Open Monitoring:** Click on the **rancher-monitoring** addon.
> 3.  **Launch Prometheus:** Switch to the **Prometheus** tab and click the **Prometheus Graph** link.
> 4.  **Filter Alerts:** Within the Prometheus interface, click the **Alerts** tab.
> 5.  **Locate Rules:** Search for `kubernetes-resources` to view the status of your ResourceQuota alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Viewing Alert Details

Once threshold conditions are met and the duration has elapsed, alerts transition to the _Firing_ state.

To view alert details, perform the following steps:

1. On the Harvester UI, go to **Advanced > Add-ons**.

1. Click **rancher-monitoring**.

1. Go to the **Prometheus** tab and click **Prometheus Graph**.

1. On the Prometheus UI, go to **Alerts**.

1. Search for `kubernetes-resources` to view the status of your ResourceQuota alerts.
```

> *Figure: Alert status for the `ResourceQuota` `default-kflsw`.*
> 
> ![](/img/v1.9/rancher/resourcequota-alerts.png)
> 
> To integrate external notifications, refer to [Configure AlertmanagerConfig](../monitoring/harvester-monitoring.md#configure-alertmanagerconfig-from-webui) to forward alerts to a central monitoring or notification server.
> 
> For more information on managing alerts, see [View and Manage Alerts](../monitoring/harvester-monitoring.md#view-and-manage-alerts).
> 
> For troubleshooting guidance, refer to the [Prometheus Operator Runbooks](https://runbooks.prometheus-operator.dev/runbooks/kubernetes/kubequotaalmostfull/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image shows the alert status for the `ResourceQuota` object named `default-kflsw`.

![](/img/v1.9/rancher/resourcequota-alerts.png)

:::tip

You can forward alerts to a central monitoring server by configuring an [`AlertmanagerConfig`](../monitoring/harvester-monitoring.md#configure-alertmanagerconfig-from-webui) resource.

:::

For more information, see [View and Manage Alerts](../monitoring/harvester-monitoring.md#view-and-manage-alerts) in the **Monitoring** section of this document and [KubeQuotaAlmostFull](https://runbooks.prometheus-operator.dev/runbooks/kubernetes/kubequotaalmostfull/) in the `kube-prometheus` runbooks documentation.
```
